# [software-design-architecture](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/software-design-architecture)

- It's important to note that this specialization primarily covers software design and not user-interface design. Although the two aspects of design are closely related, we will mostly focus on software design. We have tried to align our course with the [ACM/IEEE Software Engineering Curriculum Guidelines](https://www.acm.org/education/curricula-recommendations). It recommends the topics when teaching software design and architecture. However, with that being said, this specialization has no affiliation with ACM or IEEE.

- This specialization consists of four courses. Each course features four modules with the first three focused on content and initial parts of the capstone project and the fourth to complete the rest of the capstone project. The capstone projects will give you the opportunity to apply the knowledge that you learn in each course to a real functional software product. In the first course, you will learn about object-oriented design. This course will build upon the basics of Java and take you to the next level by covering object-oriented analysis and design. You will discover how to create flexible, reusable, and maintainable software by applying object oriented design principles. You will learn how to communicate these designs by expressing them in a visual notation known as Unified Modeling Language or UML. In the first capstone project, you will be challenged to apply your knowledge of object-oriented design by evolving and documenting a Java codebase with corresponding UML documentation. The second course focuses on design patterns. Design issues and applications can be resolved through design patterns commonly applied by experts. The second course extends your knowledge of object-oriented analysis and design by covering design patterns used in interactive applications. Through a survey of established design patterns, you will gain a foundation for more complex software applications. Finally, you will learn how to identify problematic software designs by referencing a catalog of code smells. In the second capstone project, you will be challenged to redesign an application to use design patterns. The third course covers software architecture. By the third course, you will be equipped with software design patterns and principles and will be ready to learn how architecture can be used as a basis for organizing the software systems found in industry today. Through a review of architectural styles, you will explore the structure and behavior of large scale software systems. Specific UML diagrams will express important architectural perspectives. You will learn how to analyze and evaluate a given architecture by examining the trade-offs between competing quality attributes such as modifiabilty and performance. In the capstone project in this course, you will document and evaluate the architecture of a layered Java system. Finally, in our fourth course, you will learn about service-oriented architecture. Based on the understanding of architectural styles that you learned in the third course, you will review architectures for web applications. You will then explore the basics of service-oriented architecture or SOA in two approaches, web services and representational state transfer or REST architecture. In the final capstone project, you will connect a mobile application with a variety of REST interfaces to access storage, search, and computation services. By the end of this specialization, you'll know how to design it right

- 
